v2
=====

This page aims at helping users migrating from ``copernicusmarine~=1.0.0`` to ``copernicusmarine>=2.0.0``. Mostly breaking changes will be detailed here.
The new features will not be detailed here, but you can check the documentation especially the :ref:`Change log <changelog>` for more information about the changes.

.. warning::
    One of the important breaking changes is that there is no prompt to confirm the download. Please use ``--dry-run`` if you do not want to download the files.
    The ``--force-download`` option has been removed.

General
------------------

Option ``--force-download`` deleted
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Before, it was necessary to accept a prompt to download the data.
Such prompt could be skipped adding the option ``--force-download`` at the end of the call.
In v2, the toolbox will download all the data requested without a prompt.

If you do not want to download the data but rather check what would be downloaded and if the query is correct,
you can use the option ``--dry-run`` and a response object will be returned with
the information of the data that would be downloaded.

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    > copernicusmarine susbet --dataset-id cmems_mod_glo_phy-cur_anfc_0.083deg_P1M-m -t 2022
    ...
    Do you want to download the data? [y/N]:

    # In v2
    > copernicusmarine subset --dataset-id cmems_mod_glo_phy-cur_anfc_0.083deg_P1M-m -t 2022
    ...
    {
      "file_size": 100959.3893129771,
      "data_transfer_size": 144079.14503816795,
      "status": "000",
      "message": "The request was successful."
    }


.. warning::
  Without the ``--dry-run`` option, the data will be downloaded even if the query is very large.

Options ``--no-metadata-cache`` and ``--overwrite-metadata-cache`` deleted
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

In v1, we used to cache the result of the describe using ``cachier`` library.

In v2, no cache is used and the metadata are fetched every time. However, the metadata fetching has been optimised
and fetching the metadata doing a ``get`` or a ``subset`` is fast as we only fetch the necessary metadata.

That also means that the options related to the cache system doesn't exist anymore.
Hence, ``--overwrite-metadata-cache`` and ``--no-metadata-cache`` have been removed.

.. note::

    The dependecy to ``cachier`` has been completely removed from the toolbox.


Subset
------------------

For more information, please see :ref:`the documentation page of the subset function <subset-page>`.


:class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset` as object of the response
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Output of the subset function has been changed. It is now a :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset` object in the Python interface or as a
json object in the command line interface. It used to be the path of the downloaded file.

.. code-block:: python

    # In v1
    subset_file_paths = copernicusmarine.subset(...)
    print(type(subset_file_paths))  # <class 'pathlib.Path'>

    # In v2
    response_subset = copernicusmarine.subset(...)
    print(type(response_subset))  # <class 'copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset'>

    from copernicusmarine import ResponseSubset  # Can be imported like this for typing


    def my_function(response: ResponseSubset):
        pass

In the command line interface, it is possible to filter the result using the ``--response-fields`` option.
The input of the option is a comma-separated list of the fields to be included in the output.
The available fields are the name of the fields of the :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset` object.

.. code-block:: bash

    copernicusmarine subset ... -r minimum,data_transfer_size > request-metadata.json

Option ``--vertical-dimension-output`` renamed
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--vertical-dimension-output`` has been renamed to ``--vertical-axis``.
It now takes a string as input, either ``depth`` or ``elevation``.

.. code-block:: bash

    # To get elevation instead of depth (default is depth)
    # In v1
    copernicusmarine subset --vertical-dimension-output True

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine subset --vertical-axis elevation

Option ``--overwrite-output-data`` renamed to ``--overwrite``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--overwrite-output-data`` has been deleted, use directly ``--overwrite`` instead.

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine subset --overwrite-output-data

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine subset --overwrite

Option ``--netcdf-compression-enabled`` deleted
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--netcdf-compression-enabled`` has been removed. The exact same result can be obtain with the ``--netcdf-compression-level`` option directly.

With that change the option ``--netcdf-compression-level`` is now a flag, so you could do:

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine subset --netcdf-compression-enabled

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine subset --netcdf-compression-level

    # and can choose the level of compression (default is 1 when flag is set)
    copernicusmarine subset --netcdf-compression-level 5


Describe
------------------

For more information, please see :ref:`the documentation page of the describe function <describe-page>`.

:class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCatalogue` as response
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When doing a describe in the Python interface, the response will be a :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCatalogue`.

.. code-block:: python

    import json
    import copernicusmarine

    # In v1
    a_json_str = copernicusmarine.describe()
    print(type(a_json_str))  # <class 'str'>
    a_dict = json.loads(a_json_str)

    # In v2
    now_a_copernicus_marine_catalogue = copernicusmarine.describe()
    print(
        type(now_a_copernicus_marine_catalogue)
    )  # <class 'copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCatalogue'>

    from copernicusmarine import (
        CopernicusMarineCatalogue,
    )  # Can be imported like this for typings


    def my_function(catalogue: CopernicusMarineCatalogue):
        pass

In the command line interface, this object is serialized to a json object.

Output modified
""""""""""""""""""

The content of the output of the ``describe`` has been modified:

* Now field ``services`` has been simplified and contains directly the service name, ``service_type`` has been removed.

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    {
      "product_id": "ANTARCTIC_OMI_SI_extent",
      "datasets": [
        {
          "dataset_id": "antarctic_omi_si_extent",
          "versions": [
            {
              "parts": [
                {
                  "services": [
                    {
                      "service_type": {
                        "service_name": "original-files",
                        "service_short_name": "files"
                        }
                      "uri": "https://s3.waw3-1
                      ...
                    },
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
      }

    # In v2
    {
      "product_id": "ANTARCTIC_OMI_SI_extent",
      "datasets": [
        {
          "dataset_id": "antarctic_omi_si_extent",
          "versions": [
            {
              "parts": [
                {
                  "services": [
                    {
                      "service_name": "original-files",
                      "service_short_name": "files"
                      "uri": "https://s3.waw3-1
                      ...
                    },
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
      }

* The field ``units`` for coordinates has been renamed to ``coordinate_unit``.

Options ``--include-x`` deprectated for ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

To filter the output of a describe, now you can use the ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields`` options.
The old options ``--include-dataset``, ``--include-keywords``, ``--include-description`` and ``--include-all`` have been removed in favor of the more
flexible ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields``.

As you can expect, this only concerns the command line interface. The Python API will return the full object.

Such options allow to select respectively the fields you want to include or exclude from the output. You just need to add them as a comma-separated list.

.. code-block:: bash

    copernicusmarine describe --return-fields uri,product_id,dataset_id,service_name

Here the first product is shown. As you can see, only the required fields and their respective parents are shown.

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "product_id": "ANTARCTIC_OMI_SI_extent",
      "datasets": [
        {
          "dataset_id": "antarctic_omi_si_extent",
          "versions": [
            {
              "parts": [
                {
                  "services": [
                    {
                      "service_name": "original-files",
                      "uri": "https://s3.waw3-1.cloudferro.com/mdl-native-10/native/ANTARCTIC_OMI_SI_extent/antarctic_omi_si_extent_202207/antarctic_omi_si_extent_19930115_P20220328.nc"
                    },
                    {
                      "service_name": "omi-arco",
                      "uri": "https://s3.waw3-1.cloudferro.com/mdl-arco-time-001/arco/ANTARCTIC_OMI_SI_extent/antarctic_omi_si_extent_202207/omi.zarr"
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }

You can also use the 'all' shortcut to return all the fields and then exclude if necessary:

.. code-block:: bash

    copernicusmarine describe -r all --exclude-fields uri,product_id,dataset_id,service_name,descrpition,keywords

.. note::

    By default all fields are now shown in the output. In v1, "keywords", "description" and "datasets" were not shown by default.
    To have a similar output as before, you can exclude them with the option ``--exclude-fields datasets,description,keywords``.


Option ``--include-versions`` renamed to ``--show-all-versions``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--include-versions`` has been renamed to ``--show-all-versions``.
The behaviour is the same.

Get
------------------

For more information, please see :ref:`the documentation page of the get function <get-page>`.

:class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` as object of the response
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Output of the get function has been changed. It is now a :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` object in the Python interface or as a
json object in the command line interface. It used to be a list of paths to the downloaded files.

.. code-block:: python

    # In v1
    get_file_paths = copernicusmarine.get(...)
    print(type(get_file_paths))  # <class 'list'>

    # In v2
    response_get = copernicusmarine.get(...)
    print(type(response_get))  # <class 'copernicusmarine.ResponseGet'>

    from copernicusmarine import ResponseGet  # Can be imported like this for typing


    def my_function(response: ResponseGet):
        pass

In the command line interface, it is possible to filter the result using the ``--response-fields`` option.
The input of the option is a comma-separated list of the fields to be included in the output.
The available fields are the name of the fields of the :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` object.

.. code-block:: bash

    copernicusmarine get ... -r file_path,s3_url > request-metadata.json

Option ``--overwrite-output-data`` renamed to ``--overwrite``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--overwrite-output-data`` has been deleted, use directly ``--overwrite`` instead.

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine get --overwrite-output-data

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine get --overwrite

Option ``--show-outputnames`` deleted
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Before, this option would allow to output the name of the files.
We included such names in the :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` object that results for the call (either dry-run or not).

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine get -i cmems_mod_arc_bgc_my_ecosmo_P1D-m --filter "*202105/2021/12*" --show-outputnames > output.json

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine get -i cmems_mod_arc_bgc_my_ecosmo_P1D-m --filter "*202105/2021/12*" -r file_path > output.json

In the Python interface, the ``file_path`` key of the response object contains the same information that was in the ``--show-outputnames`` option.

.. code-block:: python

    # In v2
    response_get = copernicusmarine.get(...)
    files_local_paths = [file_get.file_path for file_get in response_get.files]

Login
------------------

For more information, please see :ref:`the documentation page of the login function <login-page>`.

Options ``--overwrite`` and ``--overwrite-configuration-file`` renamed to ``--force-overwrite``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The options ``--overwrite`` and ``--overwrite-configuration-file`` have been renamed to ``--force-overwrite``. The option is still the same.

.. code-block:: bash

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine login --overwrite
    # or
    copernicusmarine login --overwrite-configuration-file

    # In v2
    copernicusmarine login --force-overwrite

Option ``--skip-if-user-logged-in`` deleted
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The option ``--skip-if-user-logged-in`` has been deleted.
The option ``--check-credentials-valid`` can be used to check that the credentials are correctly set.

Now, we can do the login like this in our notebooks:

.. code-block:: python

    # In v1
    copernicusmarine.login(skip_if_user_logged_in=True)

    # In v2
    if not copernicusmarine.login(check_credentials_valid=True):
        copernicusmarine.login()
