Pre-release 2.0.0a4
====================

Changes starting with **B** introduce breaking changes.

.. warning::
    This is a pre-release version of the Copernicus Marine Toolbox.
    It is not recommended for production use.

General
''''''''

* Quick overview notebook to provide a quick start guide and more examples especially for the Python interface.
* Updated the response types especially :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` and :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset`. Also a status code has been added to the response.
* Added a new linux binary to cover more linux distributions. See the :ref:`installation page <installation-page>` for more information.
* ``numpy>=2.0.0`` is now supported.
* ``python>=3.13`` is now supported.
* Use the ``h5netcdf`` library to read and write NetCDF files. If you need to save files in NetCDF3 format please just manually install ``netcdf4``.
* **B** ``--force-download`` has been removed. Please use the ``--dry-run`` option if you do not want to download the files. See the :ref:`documentation about dry-run option <dry-run>` for more information.
* ``--skip-existing`` allows to skip the download of files that already exist at the output destination.
* ``--overwrite-output-data`` has been removed in favor of ``--overwrite``.


Describe
''''''''''

* Fix a bug where the dataset name was the same for all parts. We put the datasetID in case there are several parts.

Describe command got a lot of new features and changes:

* ``--dataset-id`` and ``--product-id`` are now available making the retrieval of metadata information way faster and optimised.
* **B** Created a documented type for the output of the describe. See :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCatalogue`. The Python interface will return this object directly.
* Added options ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the describe command in the command line interface.
* **B** "service_type" in the output of the describe command has been removed. The "service_name" is directly displayed in the output.
* **B** ``--include-dataset``, ``--include-keywords``, ``--include-description`` and ``--include-all`` have been removed in favor of the more flexible ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields``.
* **B** "unit" for coordinates has be renamed to "coordinate_unit". See :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCoordinate`.
* **B** Renamed ``--include-versions`` to ``--show-all-versions`` option.

Get
'''''

* Added ``--response-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the get command in the command line interface.

Subset
''''''''

* Added ``--response-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the subset command in the command line interface.
* Included "variables" in the :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset` object.
* Renamed ``--vertical-dimension-output`` to ``--vertical-axis``.
* Improved ``dask`` chunk size handling. The default chunk size is bigger and should be more optimal. Please refer to the :ref:`paragraph about chunk size limit <chunk-size-limit>` for more information.
* ``--motu-api-request`` has been deprecated. Please contact user support if you need to translate legacy motu requests.

Login
''''''

* Now supports the new Copernicus Marine authentication system. The toolbox will try to connect to the new system then fallback to the old one if needed.
* Renamed ``--overwrite``, ``--overwrite-configuration-file`` to ``--force-overwrite``.
