Release 2.0.0
====================

Check the :ref:`migration guide <migration-v2>` for information about the breaking changes and help migrating from v1 to v2.

This release of the Copernicus Marine Toolbox is a major release with a lot of new features, improvements and bug fixes.
The main objectives were to increase the stability, the performance and the operability of the toolbox.
Some work not reflected here, has been to improve the testing of the toolbox.

The main improvements are:

- An increased performance of the ``subset`` command, especially for small downloads.
- A documentation with more examples and a quick start guide.
- Support for Python 3.13 and ``numpy`` 2.0.0.
- Binaries for Linux distributions, Windows and MacOS.
- Removed the cache system for the metadata and optimised the fetching process.

Some dependencies, such as ``aiohttp`` and ``nest-asyncio``, have been removed as they appeared to cause bugs for some users.
For instance, the toolbox previously displayed warning messages, which should no longer occur.

.. warning::
    One of the important breaking changes is that there is no prompt to confirm the download. Please use ``--dry-run`` if you do not want to download the files.
    The ``--force-download`` option has been removed.

General
''''''''

Breaking changes
------------------

* Removed ``--force-download``. Please use the ``--dry-run`` option if you do not want to download the files. See the :ref:`documentation about dry-run option <dry-run>` for more information.
* Removed ``--overwrite-metadata-cache`` and ``--no-metadata-cache`` options.
* Removed deprecated ``--force-dataset-version``, ``--force-dataset-part`` and ``--force-service`` options.


New features
------------------

* Versioned documentation with a changelog, migration guide and more examples. See the :ref:`documentation <home-page>` for more information.

* Removed dependencies
    * aiohttp
    * cachier
    * netcdf4
    * nest-asyncio
* Added dependencies
    * pydantic
    * h5netcdf
* Added binaries for Linux distributions, Windows and MacOS with each release. See the :ref:`installation page <installation-page>` for more information.
* Removed the cache system for the metadata. See the :ref:`migration page about cache system <cache-system>` for more information.
* Use new Copernicus Marine authentication system.
* Support for ``python>=3.13`` and ``numpy>=2.0.0``.
* Response types for ``get``, ``subset`` and ``describe`` commands are now documented. See :ref:`response types <response-types>` for more information.
* Added ``COPERNICUSMARINE_HTTPS_TIMEOUT`` and ``COPERNICUSMARINE_HTTPS_RETRIES`` environment variables to set the timeout and the number of retries for the requests to the authentication and the metadata catalogue.
* README badges updated.
* Copernicus Marine Toolbox logger is renamed to "copernicusmarine".
* Logs have been slightly modified and verbose has been reduced by default.

Fixes
------------------

* Fixed a bug where login would use "http" instead of "https".
* Fixed a bug where users would not be able to access released datasets at the right time. The toolbox is now timezone aware internally.


Subset
''''''''

Breaking changes
------------------

* Removed ``--force-download``. Please use the ``--dry-run`` option if you do not want to download the files. See the :ref:`documentation about dry-run option <dry-run>` for more information.
* Removed dependency to ``netCDF4``, can be breaking for ``--netcdf3-compatible`` option. Replaced by ``h5netcdf``. See the :ref:`migration page about netCDF4 <netcdf4-migration>` for more information.
* Removed ``--subset-method`` option. Replaced by ``--coordinates-selection-method``. See the :ref:`documentation about coordinates selection method <coordinates-selection-method>` for more information.
* Output of the Python function is now a :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset` object.
* "depth" is now taken into account when checking intervals for the ``subset`` command. Be mindful of this, especially when using the ``--coordinates-selection-method`` option.
* Removed ``--netcdf-compression-enabled`` option. ``--netcdf-compression-level`` can be used directly. See :ref:`migration guide <netcdf-compression-level-migration>`.
* Renamed ``--vertical-dimension-output`` to ``--vertical-axis``.
* Removed ``--overwrite-output-data`` option, still remains ``--overwrite``.
* Removed deprecated ``minimal`` and ``maximal`` options replaced by ``minimum`` and ``maximum``. (``--minimal-longitude``, ``--maximal-longitude``, ``--minimal-latitude``, ``--maximal-latitude``, ``--minimal-depth`` and ``--maximal-depth``)

New features
------------------

* Output of the command is a documented type (returned as a json for the command line). See :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseSubset`.
* Optimised the subset performance especially for small downloads.
* Added ``--response-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the ``subset`` command in the command line interface.
* Modified attributes of netCDF files. An effort has been made to improve the compliance of the netCDF files generated by the ``subset`` command. For example, "valid_min" and "valid_max" are not set for dimensions.
* Added ``--coordinates-selection-method`` option. Replace the old ``--subset-method`` option. See the :ref:`documentation about coordinates selection method <coordinates-selection-method>` for more information.
* The ``subset`` commands returns an estimation of the size of the network throughput (the data that will be downloaded).
* Added ``--skip-existing`` option to skip the download if the file exists.
* Added an experimental feature ``--chunk-size-limit`` to help user set the size of each dask processes. See the :ref:`documentation about chunk size limit <chunk-size-limit>` for more information.

Fixes
------------------

* Using ``--netcdf-compression-level`` was inconsistent in the size and the data of the compressed files.


Describe
''''''''''

Breaking changes
------------------

* Removed ``COPERNICUSMARINE_MAX_CONCURRENT_REQUESTS`` environment variable. Replaced by ``--max-concurrent-requests`` option.
* Removed ``--include-dataset``, ``--include-keywords``, ``--include-description`` and ``--include-all`` options. Replaced by ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields``.
* Renamed ``--include-versions`` to ``--show-all-versions`` option.
* Changed the output of the Python interface to a :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCoordinate` object.
* Removed "service-type" object from the output of the ``describe`` command. The "service_name" is directly displayed in the output. See :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineService`.
* Renamed "unit" for coordinates to "coordinate_unit". See :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCoordinate`.


New features
------------------

* Added ``--dataset-id`` and ``--product-id`` making the retrieval of metadata information way faster and optimised.
* Added ``--max-concurrent-requests`` option to limit the number of concurrent requests when fetching the catalogue.
* Added ``--return-fields`` and ``--exclude-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the ``describe`` command in the command line interface. See the :ref:`documentation about return fields <return-fields>` for more information.
* Output of the command is a documented type (returned as a json for the command line). See :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarineCatalogue`.


Fixes
------------------

* The dataset name was the same for all parts. The datasetID is used in case there are several parts.
* Some coordinates variables were displayed even if not existing for the variable.
* Fixed bug with improper handling of retention dates for coordinate lists. For instance, retention date could be "2022-01-01" but the minimum date "2020-01-01". This bug has been fixed.


Get
'''''

Breaking changes
------------------

* Removed ``--force-download``. Please use the ``--dry-run`` option if you do not want to download the files. See the :ref:`documentation about dry-run option <dry-run>` for more information.
* Removed ``COPERNICUSMARINE_GET_CONCURRENT_DOWNLOADS`` environment variable. Replaced by ``--max-concurrent-requests`` option.
* Output of the Python function is now a :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet` object.
* Removed ``--service`` option.
* Removed ``--show-outputnames`` option.
* Removed deprecated ``--download-file-list`` option.
* Removed ``--overwrite-output-data`` option, still remains ``--overwrite``.

New features
------------------

* Output of the command is a documented type (returned as a json for the command line). See :class:`copernicusmarine.ResponseGet`.
* Added ``--response-fields`` to filter the fields returned by the ``get`` command in the command line interface.
* Added ``--max-concurrent-requests`` option to limit the number of concurrent requests when fetching files.
* Added ``--skip-existing`` option to skip the download if the file exists.


Fixes
------------------

* Fixed an issue where some users were not able to use the ``get`` command since they did not have permission to modified a file's metadata. Now a warning will be sent instead.


Login
''''''

Breaking changes
------------------

* Removed ``--overwrite-configuration-file`` option and ``--overwrite``. Replaced by ``--force-overwrite``.
* Removed ``--skip-if-user-logged-in`` option. Replaced by ``--check-credentials-valid``.

New features
------------------

* Added ``--check-credentials-valid`` option to check if the credentials are valid without logging in again.
* Added ``--credentials-file`` option to check if the credentials for a given credentials file are valid.
* The prompt now asks "Copernicus Marine username" instead of "username" to avoid confusion with the system username.
* Updated logs to be more informative and less verbose.
* Added return value in the docstring.

Fixes
------------------

* ``.netrc`` files and ``motuclient`` files are now correctly handled.
