Beta Release 2.1.0b0
======================

.. warning::

    This is a pre-release version of the Copernicus Marine Toolbox. It is only intended for testing and should not be used in production.


General
''''''''

New features
------------------

- Added :ref:`"Polygons-based data selection" <polygons-based-data-selection>` page in the docs (usage section) with examples to detail how you can download data with polygons as input area.
- Removed Linux binary with ``glibc==2.31`` since Github Actions does not support it anymore.
- Added a new one with ``glibc==2.39``.
- Added ``arcosparse`` as new dependency.
- Released constraint on ``zarr`` allowing ``zarr>=3.0.0``.

Fixes
------------------

- Clearer error message when ``netcdf4`` is not installed and should be installed for the user request.
- Fixed an issue that would cause the help of the command line interface to fail for binaries.

Subset
''''''''

New features
------------------

- Added stereographic subsetting. Please read more in the :ref:`subset usage page <stereo-subset>` or :ref:`this page <stereo-subset-page>` for more complete examples.
- Added subsetting for sparse datasets (including INSITU datasets). See the :ref:`documentation about sparse subsetting <sparse-subset>` for more information.
- Added option ``raise-if-updating`` to raise an error if the dataset is updating. See the :ref:`documentation about this flag <raise-if-updating>` for more information.

Describe
''''''''

New features
------------------

- Added ``arco_updating_start_date`` and ``arco_updated_date`` fields in the metadata. Please see :ref:`this section <arco-updat-date>` for more information.
- Added method ``get_coordinates`` on :class:`copernicusmarine.CopernicusMarinePart` to get the coordinates of the dataset at the part level.
