Release 2.2.0
====================

This release focuses on improving the testing capabilities of the Toolbox.
It also includes some new features and fixes.

General
-------

New features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Development has focused on testing capabilities of the Toolbox.

  * Dependency tests now also run on MacOS and Windows.
  * Integration tests also run on MacOS and Windows.
  * Added coverage. See `copernicusmarine codecov page <https://app.codecov.io/gh/mercator-ocean/copernicus-marine-toolbox>`__.

* Added a way for the Toolbox to fetch and parse metadata from several server locations. It makes the Toolbox more resilient to a data provider service outage. Please, check the :ref:`installation page <installation-page-domains>` as new domains might be used by the Toolbox.
* Release constraint on ``zarr`` has been relaxed, now allowing ``zarr>=3.0.0``.

Subset
------

Fixes
^^^^^

* Fixed an issue where along-track data would not be correctly parsed by ``arcosparse`` library. Upgraded to ``arcosparse==0.4.2`` to fix this issue.
* Fixed an issue where the service (``arco-geo-series`` or ``arco-time-series``) of the subset command would be wrong in some edge cases.
* Fixed a bug that introduced performance regressions in v2.1.x of the Toolbox for some subset requests. The code has been refactored to improve performance and the use of ``chunk-size-limit`` option should have more predictable effects.
* Fixed an issue where ``zarr==3.0.9`` would raise an error when subsetting. The Toolbox now supports ``zarr>=3.0.0``.
